Oh, we are live at the moment.
Yes. Yeah. Thank you.
Well, good morning ministers.
Welcome, um, to the Education Workforce Select Committee.
Welcome back, Tim. Uh,
we've got half an hour with you this morning.
I can give you a couple minutes
to do some introductory remarks.
I don't know if you are each gonna do those. Absolutely.
And then we will go into questions.
Thank you very much. Well, thank you for the invitation
to be here, and it's lovely to be amongst you again.
Uh, as you know, uh, minister
and I have collected responsibility for this area.
So I'll speak quickly first,
and then I'll hand over to Minister ti.
So, uh, I just like to highlight a few of the things.
Uh, from my perspective, obviously, the disestablishment of
N-Z-I-S-T has been a major milestone,
and I would really like to acknowledge the strong support
that I've had from TC and the ministry, uh, during that.
I think it's, uh, worked very well.
And, uh, as you may know, the orders
and council have gone through now.
And, uh, as you were meeting this morning,
the PRS went out announcing the board members, uh, board
for the, uh, polytechnics
and the two ministerial appointments on each
of the ISB boards.
And also the tests went out, the strategy went out.
So, uh, lot's been happening while you've been in this room.
Uh, we announced last year
or earlier this year, rather,
that there would be 10 polytechnic
reestablished as standalone.
So, uh, that's well on its way.
And, uh, of course we have the eight industry skills boards.
Uh, one of the things that's been very top of mind
for us has been the continuity for staff and students
and retaining institutional knowledge
and ensuring that, um, staff get their letters
of appointment before Christmas so
that they can see their offers
and, uh, accept their offers before then.
Just to give that continuity
and assurance that on one January there will be staff there.
Uh, I'd like to acknowledge the incredible work
that has been done
by the polytechnics over the last 18 months,
improving their financial performance,
the 10 standalone polytechnics particularly,
but also those that are still left in, uh, NZID.
They have also made really good progress, progress
with their financial situation.
And, uh, we hope
to be looking at them quite early in the new year.
Um, uh, there's been, I think a lot of
to learn from the financial work that's been done in terms
of ensuring, uh, both fit for purpose,
but also good connection with community
and being in a position to be able to provide what,
uh, the community wants.
And there was a particularly good article
that went in about Win Tech, uh, just in the last day
or so talking about how they are re-engaging
with their community, re-engaging with their Chamber
of Commerce and, uh, setting themselves up
to be a cornerstone of skills development in the Waikato.
And that's what we expect to see across the country.
So, I'll hand over now to, um, minister ti
to speak about this areas,
Uh, Koto, thanks very much
for having us here this morning.
Uh, can I also acknowledge the assistance of agencies,
M-O-E-T-E-C and EZQA, uh, and the work
and support that they provide for us.
Uh, I'll briefly highlight, uh, three things in the, uh,
thank you University and Yanga space.
First of all, the tertiary
education strategy has been released.
Um, it has five key objectives, uh, achievement,
economic impact and innovation, access
and participation, integration and collaboration
and international education.
And we can expand, uh, on them.
Uh, secondly, we are progressing some
of the recommendations in the
university advisory group report.
And I chair the university strategy, uh, group, uh, which,
uh, brings together industry, uh, academics, uh,
all those in the higher education space.
And, uh, we are leading that forward.
Uh, the third piece of work is, uh,
reconfiguring the PBRF into TRF,
that is performance based research funding into
tertiary research excellence fund.
And, uh, how a new configuration
of the three main components to that, um, might look.
And we've made, made good progress on the, uh,
external research income component,
because the tricky part's always going
to be the qualitative evaluation.
That's the part that everyone wanted us to fix.
'cause it take took years to do
and it was really hard to sort of, uh,
understand and then produce.
So we're doing a lot of work on that now.
But, uh, substantively, that's all I wanted to say.
So, uh, turn the time back to the committee
and thank you. Thank
You, Shannon Halbert.
Thank you. Um, uh, minister Simmons, I'll,
I'll ask questions of you first.
So we're in an economic downturn.
Your next numbers have hit 90,000, in your words,
10,500 more in the last 12 months.
How does it make sense
to cut the apprenticeship boost scheme, which means
thousands of less apprenticeships, apprentices are enrolling
and graduating when in fact our workforce tells us
that we need more in the next few years? Hmm.
Um, thank you. Yes, you're quite right.
The needs numbers are, are higher
and we know that in times
of high unemployment youth are usually impacted,
uh, more significantly.
Um, a BI apprentice boost, of course, was a COVID initiated,
um, uh, uh, solution to the issues of COVID.
It always was finishing the funding for
that finished at the end of 2024.
So in fact, we picked up
and, uh, continued some funding for it,
but not the full amount that had been there during COVID.
Uh, I guess the, the issue around a BI is,
it is not a full subsidy of, of, uh,
employing an apprentice.
It's a small amount, uh, to encourage those that, uh,
are taking on apprentices to support them through.
So if the work is not there,
the apprentices won't get taken on whether there's an, um,
apprentice boost or not.
So, TUC has confirmed that yes,
demand has dropped away from employers.
Mm-hmm. But why would the government remove the one
incentive that supports employers to pick up an apprentice?
Well, because the amount is never going to pay
for the full, uh, cost of the apprentice.
And if the work isn't there,
you can't take an apprentice on.
So as the economic recovery occurs, as construction picks up
as we are seeing the consents are picking up,
as the infrastructure, um, builds take place,
then there will be more apprentices taken on.
And this is a, a small incentive, uh, that assists
to support the apprentices when, uh, there,
but it's never going to be enough to make an employer
employ an apprentice if there isn't work there.
So do you not see the correlation between the drop
of apprenticeships by the thousands under your watch
and your removal of funding
that supports people to take up learning?
No, absolutely not.
I see the drop in apprenticeships being the economic
recovery, having to take place from the very poor fiscal
discipline that was shown by the previous government.
And this government having to work our way out
of an economic, uh, situation that wasn't of our making.
That meant that we had to get inflation under control.
We had to get interest rates back so
that businesses had the confidence to be able
to employ again.
So that is the reason why apprentices
weren't being taken on.
As we pull outta this, um, economic situation,
then apprentices will come back as the, the building, uh,
in construction increases,
and we're seeing it happening in the south island
and in the rural areas particularly,
we are seeing consents increase.
We are seeing the infrastructure work, the six
or 7 billion of infrastructure work that is going to start,
uh, very soon, that's when more apprentices will come on.
But the apprentice boost is always only a small amount
to support, uh,
those employers when they do have apprentices.
Minister, you have 90,000 young people in this country
not engaged in education, employment, or training. Correct.
What Are you doing about that?
Well, we're ensuring that we have got the provision
of the, uh, sort of, uh, programs
and vocational education
that will give them a pathway to employment.
The sad situation is
that when an economy has been mismanaged,
that there is a hard reality of getting back to the basics
of getting inflation under control,
of getting interest rates under control,
of getting businesses in a situation
where they can employ again.
And that is the reality of an unemployment rising.
As we gain control of the economy, again, that means that,
uh, we are not going
to see those young people going into
apprenticeships that we would like.
But as the, as the economy comes out of that recession,
we will see, um, the employment pick up
and we'll see apprenticeships pick
Up. Your Prime Minister
has been very clear
that young people need to get out
of their house off PlayStation, go
and get a job wherever that is, or go into training.
We know that there isn't jobs available for them.
And what I see today is
that there isn't training opportunities available
to them under your reform.
There's less opportunities
for those living in regional communities.
There's less apprenticeships available
and there's less foundation learning available
because you won't fund it.
My question is, what are you doing
to address the 90,000 needs numbers
that you have raised under your watch?
Well, certainly we have put in place things like, uh,
a greater number of, um,
youth guarantee places 175 extra youth guarantee places.
Uh, the, the programs, the courses that have been closed
by the Polytechnic are not full of people.
Polytechs don't close courses that have 18 or 20
or even 16 people in them.
They close courses that aren't viable
because they've got very small numbers in them.
We are ensuring that we have in place a network
of polytechnics assisted by a federation,
which will give all those polytechnics with quite, uh,
sparse populations over large geographic regions, access to,
uh, distance delivery via the open polytechnic.
So the portfolio of programs that will be available
to a number of those young people out in those, um,
disperse, um, geographic regions such
as the far north will have a, a much greater,
much greater portfolio of programs they will have access to.
So we haven't taken away where there's demand,
where there is strong demand
and numbers are high, those programs are viable when there,
where there are smaller numbers,
and we still need to have a pathway to employment.
We're ensuring through access of online delivery
in conjunction with that federation, so on campus
and online, blended delivery will be available for those,
um, those young people
that are in many cases in quite isolated communities. Okay.
One final step, uh, just quickly is,
so in your forecast in the year ahead,
are your needs numbers going up while are they going down?
Uh, I believe that we've hit about peak unemployment
and we expect it to go down.
The needs may take a little longer than the general,
um, unemployment to go down.
Francisco, uh, thank you chair
and welcome ministers and welcome back officials.
Uh, minister, we heard from officials earlier
that not a single dollar
of the $157 million contingency fund has been spent so far.
Mm-hmm. At the same time, we've seen
around one in seven jobs go into Polytech sector.
We've seen courses cut
and we've seen hundreds of millions of assets sold
or identified as being suitable for sale.
My question is, why hasn't this money been used
to help support the institutions through the transition?
Uh, it will be used eventually.
So the plan is for it to be used eventually.
It hasn't had to be used yet,
but it was an important piece of work for those polytechnic
to do to right size.
And that's both people, but also their physical assets.
So, uh, it would be wrong of us to use that contingency fund
to prop up things that in the long run are not needed.
So courses with small numbers in it, assets are e
that are either underused
or unused, shouldn't be sitting there.
They should be sold. So it was important to go through that,
uh, financial work,
and it would've been inappropriate to use contingency fund
for one-offs to save things,
and in the long run shouldn't be there.
Got so much. Thank you, minister.
Um, you mentioned, um, how that, um,
you mentioned in your answer, uh, around the need
to prioritize, um, things that are going
to be there in the long run.
And one of the things that I've heard on the ground is
that there's been a surge of enrollments in courses
like, uh, you know, nursing.
Mm-hmm. But they're worried that the staff cuts
that they've had to make means that there might not be
that level of search capacity available to them as they,
as enrollments come in, but they've had to cut stuff.
Will you guarantee to everyone who's wanting
to enroll in the nursing program at a point tech
that they'll be able to enroll at a course next year?
So, uh, individual institutions make that call.
They interview the, the student, the applicants.
They, um, uh, look at their credentials.
They look at what placements they've got
out in the community.
So a minister can't give those sort of guarantees
that they are decisions that must be made
by the individual institutions.
And that will be made in conjunction
with Health New Zealand in conjunction with their, uh,
health community.
And what needs there are, if they, uh, have the placements,
if they have the clinical placements to be able to satisfy
the 1100 hours of clinical during a degree,
then they will be offering places.
There will be no reason for, uh, institutions
to not take students if they meet their academic criteria,
if they meet, uh, their, uh, interview criteria
and they have the clinical placements available.
But are you concerned that the cuts
that some institutions have had to make means
that they don't have the surge capacity to be able to bring
Students? No, I, I, I'm more worried
about the clinical placements
than the staffing in the institutions.
I believe they will either have the staffing
or can gain the staffing if they need to.
It's much more about the clinical placement constraints
that is being faced right across the country
and not just in nursing and other health areas.
Yeah. Um, just, um, thank you minister.
How important is the restructure
of the whole vocational sector that you've,
that you're implementing in terms of now
and working with informing our new strategy
that you've announced today?
Yeah, look, it's, it's critical in terms of the,
the skills that very first, uh, part about, uh, the strategy
of ensuring that people have the right skills
to then be able to, um, to, uh, engage in the economy
and to, for them individually and as families,
but also in growing our economy.
So it's, it's not just about getting
qualifications, it's about skills.
And then sometimes that might be smaller
than qualifications.
The other big part of it is that engagement
with local community, what local communities need,
what employment needs they have, but also with industry.
And that's been a critical part
of the industry skills boards, ensuring that industry is
absolutely intimately involved with the development
of the qualifications, knowing where they want the funding
to go, to where they, uh, want, uh, the delivery to happen.
So it's having industry on board with it, industry,
a major player in it,
but also community driving what graduates they want where,
and, and that's just so critical
to make sure we are meeting those future
employment needs. Thank
You. Great.
Palmer
Primary. Thank you. My
question is to the minister.
Um, so minister, I was looking at the, um,
the Times Higher Education award, university rankings,
and in that one particular criteria
that is the international outlook,
and it has been declining for, it has declined, uh,
since 2023 for all of our radios.
It is quite concerning
and I'm sure you're concerned, uh, about it as well.
And we cannot continue to use COVID as an excuse.
So I want to understand from you, um,
how much focus are you giving to that
and how you looking to kind of fix that?
Thank you. So, of course, international rankings are,
are important, important for the fidelity
of our own domestic degrees,
but also for our ability to attract international, uh,
international students.
And, uh, pleasingly we're having significant increases in
our international students.
And let's remember that international students contribute
to our rankings, uh, both in, uh, staff to student ratios
and in actually, uh, the number of, uh, people
who are teaching, uh,
that are from an international background.
So international students are important to us.
So, uh, rankings are important.
Uh, we would want, I mean, it's pleasing of course
to have Auckland leading the way, uh, through the rankings,
but we really want the rising tide
to lift all the other universities, uh, as well.
So it's a focus both, uh, of myself,
I know certainly, um, Mr.
Stanford with the lead on national education,
it's a key focus for her as well.
And, uh, our goal is to increase, uh, the, uh, rankings,
our international rankings.
Remembering staff to student ratios is a,
is a key contributor to that.
And that's where we've struggled a bit in the past.
That's a, so just wanted
to focus on the international outlook within the
international, the world rankings.
Mm-hmm. So is there a comment from you about that?
Sure. So, um, with the view to, uh, international rankings
and our, our international outlook, again,
it's an area we focus on extensively.
Uh, having recently, uh, been in China
and met with, uh, minister Hu, the Minister
for education from China, was able to, from one
of our greatest markets, actually was able
to get a real sense of the importance they put on, uh,
the relationship they have with us.
And that's our sense in our other international,
uh, scenes as well.
So yes, it's important.
Yes, we're focusing on it, it's a joint collaboration
between myself, Mr. Simmons, of course, also
because we have international students through the, uh,
I-T-P-P-T-E sector as well.
And through, uh, schools where Minister Stanford comes in.
Yes, it's important, I would say the international outlook
is good, uh, from a tertiary education sector
perspective, but we can always do better.
Oh, definitely. Yeah. Um, Shannon,
Thank you. In
relation to, um, the ISBs,
I just wonder if you could give an outline of
what your expectations are
for the deliverables for the year ahead?
Mm-hmm. So the ISVs, uh, ob obviously their core
is the qualification development, the standard setting, uh,
for their industries.
And so, uh, one of my key expectations will be engagement
with the industries that they represent, ensuring
that they are setting up, uh, structures that, uh, enable
that two-way flow of communication
because, you know,
they're across a wide range of industries.
Uh, they will also be ensuring that they endorse programs.
And I am wanting to be very clear
that I don't want duplication between the work
that the ISBs do and approving
and endorsing, uh, programs of delivery
to meet their qualifications and the work that NZQA does.
And so that's something we are keeping a
really close eye on.
Uh, they will also be involved in some work, um,
workforce planning.
Uh, and we are looking at, uh, other areas
where they might do some specific work with some specific,
um, excuse me, additional funding if that occurs.
So, uh, that's the core of what they'll be doing,
but they have the ability to flex up a little bit, um,
because they can levy their industries more easily
and they can charge for their, uh, quality assurance work,
their moderation work, and their monitoring.
So it gives them the opportunity
to flex up a bit if the industries have specific, um,
areas they want to look at.
I'm pretty keen for them to be looking at completion rates
for apprentices and what we might be doing better
for both employers
and apprentices to ensure that we get better
uptake of apprentices.
And also, um, apprenticeships and also better completions,
although it's pleasing to see that the, uh,
credits being gained is, uh, improving again.
Now, uh, the completion rates haven't quite got the yet,
but the credits that the apprentices are getting is, uh,
improving, so that's good.
Um, so I asked a question of TC around, uh,
the staffing side of things.
Uh, and there's an expectation that for
ISBs, Uh, for ISBs, okay, yes.
That by the 1st of March, you know, roughly 60%
of staff will be in place.
Mm-hmm. However, that's half of the, the staffing roughly,
um, that the WCS had.
Mm-hmm. Are you confident that the deliverables
that you've just outlined can in fact be delivered
with the staffing that is in place and the resources
and funding that you've allocated?
Absolutely. I don't think the, uh, previous staffing
for the WCS was any, uh, magic figure
that was the right amount.
It was, uh, they'd only been in place
a short amount of time.
A number of them had amassed reserves.
So, uh, I don't think it was a magical figure
for getting exactly the right work out
of the industry bodies.
Uh, they will be more focused,
the ISBs will be more focused.
We will expect them to prioritize what they do.
And obviously the standard setting,
the qualification development
and the moderation are really critical.
So they will be, like most industries, businesses,
households across this country, they will be working
with a reduced budget, and that is appropriate
because that's what most
of their industry players are doing as well.
Mm. In relation to the NCEA refresh
and the ISBs being included in that.
Mm. Is that component,
that work program being funded out of what you've
Articulated? So
there'll be additional funding that
We go, yes. It's not coming outta the equipment.
How much is that additional funding?
Uh, that's not for me to answer.
That's for the, um, minister for Education. But
Surely, as the person responsible minister responsible
for ISBs, you need to understand what income
You will have in order to, they'll be working essentially
as a contract for the work that needs to be done
for the NCA work.
What conversations, meetings have you had
with Minister Stanford and the planning of thep? We've,
We've certainly been, uh, in meetings
and in conversations as have the agencies about that.
So, uh, we're just working through that at the moment. Sure.
Last up, last up, uh, were you consulted by Minister
Stanford, uh, before she established
or announced that ISBs will be a part of her work program?
I, I was very aware from very early on that, um,
last year we were discussing it. Right.
Grant, um, from, yeah. Um,
I question for the, um, uh, for Dr.
Ricky, um, just with the new, uh, strategy,
tertiary education strategy announced state,
what are the expectations, what expectation you have
to the achievements
that you'd like to see from that strategy?
So one of the key tasks
of the university strategy group is to activate
and enable the tertiary education strategy.
So this will be a key task, the VCs, everyone else
around the table at, at the, the USG.
Uh, I mean, I, I I, I would be challenging for anyone to,
uh, suggest that increasing access
and participation in completion
was anything other than a good thing.
And certainly all the sense we've had from, uh,
stakeholders, uh, is that being more descriptive as to
what their accountability measures is, uh, is,
is a good thing with some of the
feedback, um, that we received.
So we're excited to lead that forward as,
as a new education strategy.
Okay. Um,
Francisco, Thank you chair, uh, ministers, we've seen
that food bank usage of students has gone up considerably
during the past year.
OU say Food bank has seen a 30%
increase from the previous year.
Canterbury has seen a 20% increase in the hardship funding
given up by TIPING has gone up by 54%.
What specific new initiatives, uh, if any,
has the government set up
to help alleviate student poverty over the
past annual review period?
Um, of course, the existing mechanisms,
the student allowance, uh, remains, uh, available.
And, uh, then the other efforts that we're making, uh,
through the economy to provide opportunities, uh,
for student work as best we can
in a challenging environment.
Uh, but fundamentally, the student allowance remains the
main, uh, opportunity for students to, to get remedy.
So there's been no new specific
initiatives over the past year.
Are there any planned ones over the coming year?
Uh, look, we're, we're trying to figure out, as I say,
with, uh, access participation
and completion being key initiatives,
and, uh, the concern that, uh,
students may not be able to complete.
Obviously it sits in our wider, wider work streams.
Um, but I, I can't describe a particular active work
stream here at this point in time.
Ah, Yes. A very quick question, minister,
because, um, I, I understand that, uh, the mapas scheme is,
uh, actually, uh, being it is supposed to be reviewed,
and it, uh, it is the Minister of Health, uh,
I believe Minister Brown responsible for that.
But want to understand from you, are you in the loop
and are you able to comment on how that is going?
So what, what I can say is that you're right,
that's the responsibility, uh,
responsibility of Minister Brown.
And what I can say is that is, is progressing well
and in, in short term, um, one should expect
to see the first results from that review.
Thank you. Any other questions,
members? Mr. Scott?
Uh, thank you, chair.
Um, do you have an update on the progress
of the new campus at the Waikato Medical School?
Uh, yes, I can. That's a, uh, joint collaboration
between the lead with Ministry of Health, uh,
and, uh, between myself as Minister for Universities.
And, uh, that is progressing well.
Uh, it's progressing
through the appropriate cabinet processes that you,
that you would expect through various, uh, business cases.
And, um, you know, a large part of the work, uh,
now is starting to turn our attention towards,
as Mr. Simmons described, uh, around nursing, uh,
positions around clinical placement.
Um, that's a, a, a challenging area for everyone.
And so that's, uh, where a particular work group is,
is now focusing on, in, in phase two.
So, uh, net net. Good, good progress on that.
And, uh, mostly on schedule.
Has the promise philanthropic funding come through?
Uh, some philanthropic funding
has come through, correct. But
Not the full Amount? No,
not the full. It wasn't anticipated
this early in the piece anyway.
Is it a timeframe of schedule and a work group for that? Is
It anticipated the full amount will come through?
Yes, it is, Um, supplementary from me on that.
Uh, minister, are you able to talk to us a little bit about
how provincial
and regional New Zealand outside
of the Waikato are gonna benefit from the establishment
of the third medical school?
Sure. So I think we'd all, we'd all have concerns around,
uh, the lack and the challenge of, uh,
rural primary care particularly,
and it's, remember that's the focus
of the third medical school.
Uh, it has several things.
It has that new model of care,
and as much as that it's graduate entry,
first graduate entry school in New Zealand,
very much following the North American and Canadian model,
but also that, that philosophy of train in place,
stay in place, that, uh, if you train people,
and certainly for years two, three,
and four, if they return to their family and their home
and their community most nights with their training,
they will likely stay.
And so that, that, you know, Wollongong showed us that,
and other models have as well.
So it's, it's bringing that new model of care,
the graduate entry, and the train in place, stay in place.
Consequently, uh, the reach out, uh,
the benefits are not just anticipated to be, uh, limited to
around the medical school to around.
And, uh, there are discussions
and have been discussions for some period of time around,
uh, other rural areas that may benefit from clinical
placements, may benefit from future positioning,
may benefit from teaching.
So we wanna share the love from the Waco Medical School
around all of the rural, uh, areas
that may have those needs.
Great. Thank you.
Um, minister ti, uh, an update on the Mapez
Review. Oh,
sure. Just following on from the, uh, the question here,
uh, that, that's progressing well, again, the lead on
that is with Minister Brown
and, uh, that's progressing well.
And I expect in short notice the, uh,
next step will come into public domain. And what
Are the themes that have come through, initial themes
Of that Oh, until that's through into public domain.
I'm not going to discuss that here now.
Uh, and again, minister Brown, that's probably, uh,
his privilege, uh, to reveal
that saying it's his document on his lead. You think
It's positive?
Last question. Uh,
Look, I think the review has been conducted in the, uh,
spirit and intent that it was anticipated.
And so we'll wait for those findings
to come out for wider discussion.
Good. Thank you, ministers. That's a great place to leave.
Appreciate the time you've given us this morning.
Appreciate the officials, um, joining us,
and, uh, we will see you again.
No doubt. Thank you.
Members, we are now remaining in public session
and moving to the annual review of NZQA.
We'll just pause the recording while we,
thanks very much.
Uh, what about that? We'll go back onto live.
Welcome to, um, NZQA.
Uh, understand that grants on, so,
um, Ashhar Yes.
Me Yes. Pronouncing that correctly, correct, yes. Yeah.
Welcome, uh, here as the Acting Chief Executive.
And then, um, Kevin as Chair, uh,
I'll give you a few minutes to make some introductory
remarks, and then we'll go to questions members.
There's no structured agenda for this session, so
I'll happily take questions on any subject.
Lieutenant Koto, um, to York.
Um, I'm Kevin Jenkins, as you said.
Uh, the chair of NZQA, the board.
Um, and I'm joined by the Acting Chief Executive bhi.
Uh, we're really pleased to answer any questions you have
about NZQ a's performance in 20 25 26.
Um, we, we pursued four strategic
objectives over that period.
First was, uh, to perform our core, uh, functions well, uh,
supported by strong corporate infrastructure.
The second key objective, uh, was to utilize right touch,
right size regulation
that balances the needs of all stakeholders.
The third was to improve stakeholder understanding
of qualifications and credentials.
Uh, and the fourth was to leverage digital solutions
to increase business efficiency, uh, and quality.
Our core functions, uh, include the delivery of NCEA
and NZ scholarship assessment, uh, the quality assurance
of tertiary education outside of universities, uh,
administration of the tertiary
and international learners Code of practice, uh,
supporting the recognition
of New Zealand qualifications internationally.
Along with the recognition here
of qualifications gained offshore, uh, we face, uh,
some significant, uh, changes in
how we deliver our key functions.
Uh, we are helping, we are helping inform work on the pro,
uh, proposed replacement of NCEA qualifications,
and, uh, we're supporting the government's
changes vocational education.
NCQA has been investigating opportunities for the use
of artificial intelligence.
Uh, our approach to AI emphasizes keeping humans in the loop
and robust, uh, safety and, and privacy guardrails.
A key challenge we face is the need to upgrade our, upgrade,
our legacy digital systems.
Our, our core system is 20 years old
and increasingly expensive, difficult
and risky, uh, to maintain.
We are also taking a very careful approach, uh,
to coordinating these, uh, changes,
taking these opportunities and managing the challenges.
Our core functions remain our top priority.
And just to finish, um, our 2025 exam round
for NCEA
and New Zealand scholarship concluded last week, uh,
and we're pleased that exams on the whole ran very smoothly.
Uh, more than 31,000 students attempted NCEA level
one English online.
And that's the new record. So, um, thank you
for your time, uh, Prashant
and I would welcome any questions.
Thank you. Uh, Lawrence, Nan.
Thank you. Uh, chair n the Q is probably my most
exciting we going on now.
We're got an now. So, um,
I wanna first start with compliance.
Um, and I wanna just pick up on something
that was discussed in the May estimates hearing, um, that,
or actually in probably scrutiny last week,
which is the update to the NZ QA rules.
Do you mind actually working the committee through on some
of the updates you've made to NZ QA rules
and how have you seen them being implemented
and updated by PDs? Sure.
So I can touch on that and if you need
to go anything specific.
So, uh, we, as, as you know, uh, we have spoken last time
that we are working on refreshing our regulatory framework,
uh, which is the, uh,
integrated quality assurance framework.
And on the back of the framework we'll be, uh,
implementing new rules to incorporate the framework.
And so the, those rules have not yet been signed off.
They will be signed off, um, in, in the new year.
So are you referring to those rules you referring to?
Uh, no. For example,
if you're looking at the program approvals recognition
and accreditation rules,
that has been signed off in May this year. Okay.
And may maybe I really can touch on that
Kia.
I'm the DE Deputy Chief Executive for quality assurance.
Um, so we've consulted twice this calendar year on
changes to our rules.
Mm-hmm. They've included three areas of change.
So the first is the integrated quality assurance framework,
which is what, um, Prashant introduced.
And that's looking at things from program accreditation
through to how we monitor, um, compliance with our rules.
The second part of consultation
for the rules changes this year has been
on our fee structure.
Mm-hmm. And what we charge for our services,
because we are partially a cost recovery service.
Yep. And then the third part of our rules changes is
to implement the changes to the vocational education
and training system, um,
that I'm assuming the Tertiary Education Commission has
already spoken to you about this morning.
And so an integrated, uh, set of change rules is going
through the board and then to the Ministry
of Education for approval shortly.
Um, just checking that.
One of the other conversations on a specifically now focus
on the program approval recognition accreditation
rules 2025.
Mm-hmm. That there was a discussion around updating Rule 22,
which is around the English language language requirement
for international students.
Mm-hmm. I was gonna say
there was a look behind
Rule 22 is not in my category, so I'll pass it on to Ian.
So, so you are Ian Funnel
and I'm the manager of the Policy International team.
Yeah. So, um, yeah, we added some, uh,
different jurisdictions to eligibility for the table
for English language proficiency into the program approval
Definition rules At in inmate. Yeah.
One of the things we've heard is, um,
there's been concerns
around the way Pearson has done is oral exams
and the fact that then it affects international students
coming here on shore.
Because at Pearson exam, the oral component meant
that students were coming on shore without adequate
English language skills.
That is equivalent to S 5 10 0, no band below five.
Um, how has NZ QA been dealing
with changes like this within the
English testing environment?
Yeah, so we've, we've had conversations directly with,
with Pearson about, um, some of the concerns
that were raised around the leveling acro across
that test versus some other tests.
Um, Pearson have, um, made some changes to
that testing regime, and we're looking to see
how they've kind of been in over time.
Do you know how many students
and Dan come here with a previous, um, I guess lack lasted
for better, for lack of better
Word. I don't give those numbers.
So,
Um, okay. Cool.
So just, uh, moving on to the other thing
that we discussed last time was, um,
that NZQI has moved away from the four year ER model into,
we can also sit one, um,
moved from away from the ER model into sort
of more self-reporting.
How have you seen the monitoring
and how you are monitoring PDs
and how your monitoring compliance change with the shift?
Mm-hmm. And also,
have people been making complaints
or have the self, do you do sort of like a peer review
of the self-assessment to ensure
that we're not seeing things falling through the cracks?
'cause the last time again, ER was introduced
because there was a risk. Yeah.
So, um, what you're talking about is the
external evaluation review part
of the evaluative quality assurance framework, which is, um,
being replaced by the integrated Quality Assurance framework
I a next year.
So it hasn't been implemented yet, so
that comes into force in January, 2026.
But what we are seeing in the close off
of the external evaluation
and review reports, so they're only done every four years.
So the integrated quality assurance framework will step up
so that we are getting annual feedback from all
the CEOs that we monitor.
And so there are 400, over 400, um,
tertiary education organizations that are in our regulatory,
um, remit, um, excluding universities.
And so they will have to provide us with annual, um,
self review information.
And then a really critical part
of the integrated quality assurance framework is our
NZ Q a's independent verification of their self review
and our monitoring of their programs, courses, um,
provider performance, student complaints, uh,
learner journey, all of those kind of customer feedback.
If we start to see trends across various CEOs,
we will look at that from a system perspective.
If we are seeing something that is particularly, um,
egregious with a TEO individually,
then we have a dedicated monitoring
and risk team that will investigate those particular
concerns of that individual provider.
Okay. I'm gonna go to Janina. Okay.
Thank, thank you. Um,
I'm really interested in your annual report. You talked
About and highlighted The use of AI to usage,
to grade exams, mark exams,
and really interested, um, I've got a primary
and then just a couple of subs to go with that.
Um, are you confident that the errors are
less than they would be if there was human marking risks?
So I, I can touch on that.
Maybe I'll give a little bit
of context about how that marking happens.
Yes. And then I can sort of talk about the specific
Question. Would I Thank you.
So the, uh, the specific way of it, so the, the exam
that we are marking is the literacy writing exam.
So that, which is a short passage answers,
and they're, what they're, in a sense looking at structure
of, of assessment rather than necessarily the full context
that that would, it's not a, like a long passage answer
to a deep question, such as, tell me a history
of, um, the world worldwide.
So we're not necessarily looking at
that marking very short passage answers.
So we are using something called as machine learning ai,
part of, uh, general spectrum of AI to mark that.
And so, so to do that, we, uh, we've been drawing pilots
for a couple of years before
we actually started to mark those.
So for, for instance, 2019, we've been doing pilots so close
to about 35,000 scripts have been piloted
to then strengthen the model.
And so the first, uh, this year me
and then September co-requisite assessment
will marked using ai.
And so what we are doing is in that space,
because we, when we did the pilots, we looked at, uh,
the total marking across the entire spectrum of, of
that particular assessment type.
And then we looked at how AI marks versus,
versus how human marks.
And that was 80%, uh, agreement rate between, uh, uh,
the AI marking and human marking, which is
what we would expect between human and human as well.
And so this year what we have done is we have not just
relied on AI to market itself.
So we'll market at the May event, particularly we market at,
uh, we using ai
and then we, on, on the periphery of that mark
or the cutoff mark, we have used a human marking.
And internally we also have a model.
So we run, so then both the events were marked
by an external vendor, but we also ran a model internally.
So in addition to the marking that was done by the vendor,
we then you did human marking
and then we did internal marking.
And if there was any conflict between the internal
and external models, that afflict back
to the human marking again.
And then in September particularly, we then also ran our a,
a, a sampling across the entire assessment, a spectrum
of Excel, uh, nu five, five mark to one zero mark,
and then we h data sampling.
And again, we were, um, pretty confident that the,
the results of that is, is either at least as good,
if not better than human, human to human agreement is
because there's always conflicted with human one.
Probably only got one set because
that was such a false answer.
Think, um, if there is a dispute around that then,
or dispute around grades, I am assuming
that it would go back to a human. Correct.
Absolutely. Thank you. Yes, absolutely.
Just on the AI use of marketing,
can you give us a quick, um, summary of how
you've invested in that and what you've done customized
and what you've bought off shelf internationally?
Absolutely. So, uh,
our AI journey started about five years ago
before we started to mark, uh, using AI to mark exams.
We are using AI for our chat bot, for example,
and, uh, to detect breach, uh, breaches in exams.
So we have built our organizational muscle
of AI over the last five years.
So we understand where things can go wrong,
where can we accidentally go far ahead
before the technology catches up.
So we have developed the organizational muscle over five
years to understand when to invest in ai,
when it's cautious, when we have to be cautious.
So that's our first thing.
Uh, and then the model that we have currently, so the,
as I said earlier, the, the two, um,
assessment events were marked by an external vendor.
It's a Australian based vendor and it's well regarded.
We, uh, did a third party independent review by N-Z-C-E-R
and who came back saying that they're pretty confident with
what we are seeing in the, in the external model.
And on top of it, we have built an in-house capability now.
So we've got about five, um, really highend AI engineers
who can do complex AI work.
They are not sort of, um, someone who just learned two weeks
of AI on, on, on online
and then turned up there's a high-end PhDs
in computer science and mathematics.
So actually coding the high-end exams
and they've got statistics background as well.
So that's the investment we have made so that we keep
what we are doing and we are bring that in-house now.
So gonna maintain that in-house, um,
because of the customization required,
the cost efficiency that comes within house.
Um, so we have built that team
to allow not only just spark this particular assessment,
but in future we're doing some proof of concepts for end
of year exams, such as English and history, for example.
So that's the resource we've invested.
And if I could just add quickly, um,
so there's certainly an area that the board focuses on
because we're well aware of the risk as well
as the opportunities.
So we do that. And secondly, one
of the things we did was we, um, recruited two independent,
um, digital AI experts, uh,
to sit on our board subcommittee.
Great. With a explicit focus on digital and ai.
Uh, so a second supplementary from me around, around this.
When you look internationally,
what jurisdictions have an organization like NZQA
that are doing this well, um, in terms of the use of ai,
what learnings are you taking from them?
Um, because I wouldn't want you
to misconstrue from my question
that I want you doing it all in house.
In fact, that's probably a concern for me that we try
and rep replicate
what may be been done well internationally.
So I'll give you two answers on that.
So we are continuously in conversations.
Fact, last week I had a meeting with off call, which is the,
um, uh, British, uh, counterpart.
Mm-hmm. And so we are sharing lessons from them.
In fact, they are coming to us
and saying, how have you built your own ai AI team?
How have you built your own understanding of AI models?
So, so they can learn from us.
And so they are looking at similar approaches like
us, we are also talking to Australia.
So we have regular conversations with those.
Not many jurisdictions have done it
to the extent that we have done it.
So people are coming to us
to learn rather than the other way around of it.
But that doesn't mean, I mean, the other,
other people are doing other things better in
the tertiary space, for example.
So we are learning from that as well.
Um, so that's one thing.
The second thing is, uh, you're absolutely right.
We we're not saying we should always invest in house,
but the current market is extremely volatile.
We are getting providers who coming who sometimes come to us
with, with, with models which are not really strong,
and the cost, not just the first implementation of it,
but sometimes the continuous in development that you need
to do for a period of time that takes a level of maturity.
We're going through a hype curve now.
So there's a period where we'll do an inflection
where we'll do investment internally,
but then there'll be a period when actually the market will
mature, the cost models will mature,
then we'll will flick back.
Right. Thank you. I think Shannon was first
and then Lawrence in terms of a sub.
Yeah, I was just interested,
You know, when it goes wrong.
Have you received any complaints where there's been,
when information has been inaccurate or
Not so far not correct.
Not so far. So we, I mean there are two models which are,
sorry, two AI use cases, which are customer facing.
One is our chat bot, which, uh, has been in, uh,
in production for the last three years.
And that takes up about, uh, 320,000 interactions a year.
Uh, and, um, some of them actually has displaced our need
to, uh, to, uh, continuously, um, uh, uh,
add more people in the contact center, for example,
because people want, our customers are learners
and so they want to chat there.
And pe kids don't like to put the phone on their ear.
They like to chat with, with, with the chat bot.
So, so that investment has paid off. So that's one area.
So we have not heard anything, um, uh, that
of concern through that channel.
And the second one is obviously the exams
that we have ran two events so far.
None of those have resulted in questions coming
to us saying, hang on, we have
concern about how you're marked.
There's always a question where people want to, um,
challenge the, the, the mark.
But that is applies to human as well.
We didn't sort of specifically get why did I,
why did AI mark this one?
Okay. Can I just, um, add one thing about it?
We, we see three benefits, um, being achieved
by the exam marking.
One is the marking itself is as good as,
or perhaps even better as Prashant has touched on.
Secondly, it's, uh, three and a half weeks quicker.
And that in itself a benefit obviously
'cause those kids are mostly,
you know, learners that are waiting.
And thirdly, um, in those circumstances
where the learners can have another crack,
because it's all about getting the, you know, it's new
and literate, um, they can add more time to get ready
for another go.
Good insight. Laurens.
Yeah. So just on on what you're saying, um,
in the pre-hearing question, so question 31 is
how many contract value over 1 million were awarded in
2024 to 2025?
How many of these, if any, are actually, um, for the sort
of the, the AI digital
infrastructure that you're referring to?
And I guess in terms of the, you mentioned one
of the measures, which is foot traffic and et cetera.
What sort of measurements are you then using to ensure
that you're getting value for money for the system
that you're designing, the digital infrastructure
system that you're designing?
So I, uh, so just wanted to firstly check,
you're referring to the, uh, quantum of, uh,
contracts awarded over 1 million.
Is that correct? Yeah, if any of them is, no,
None of them. None of them, okay. None
of them are cool in that
by the end, just my, the second part of the question Sure.
Which is, in general, when you're doing sort
of either in-house or ai, when of the contract work,
what measurements are you using to ensure
that you're getting value for money for the amount
of money that you're spending on?
So I can touch on that using the chat bott as an example,
and I'll come to the other one.
Uh, the, Yeah.
So I'll come to the chat bott as an example first.
So we get, we, uh, used to get until about three years ago,
close to a quarter of a million, uh, interactions
or half a million interactions through our contact center,
about a hundred thousand through phone calls,
about similar number through emails and,
and through, through other mechanisms.
That's the amount of volume we were getting a, a year.
So our cost to serve in the contact center is
$5 per interaction.
And, and, and as a result of investing in ai,
we have managed to, uh,
because we, we got close to 320,000 interactions a year.
And so the investment in AI has, well,
off will has already been paid off
because we get 320,000 interactions, which part
of it is displacement of volume
that's coming through the contact center.
But part of it is also
because we only operate the contact center Monday to Friday,
eight to five, and there are people who
outside those contact towers want to contact us.
And so that latent demand has not been met
and that has been met now through this. Mm.
Um, grant, Oh, sorry. You primary?
Yeah, just to clarifying question. Okay.
Clarifying from previous, just the, you talked about
that three and a half weeks, um, quicker, which I,
so what's the current timeframe
and if as you embed the new system, um, the use of ai,
would you actually therefore bring the exam
results publicly earlier?
This is, no, this is a
Hello to the committee. Cheryl Chang,
um, chief Operating Officer, NZQA.
Um, just to clarify, we are talking about the re so
that's the event that runs for two weeks, may of September,
um, end of year exams is a different, um, based,
and that's what we're doing, some proof
of concepts on it at the moment.
So we, um, have managed to reduce the results returned back,
and the main outcome, as Kevin indicated earlier, was so
that we could get those results back to kids
who needed more support for teaching
and learning before the next round.
So that was the main reason why we utilize AI alongside some
process improvements to, to, to do that.
So we, we are not yet in a position at all
to touch end of year exams.
We're just playing in that space at the moment.
I like it, um, based on previous scripts.
And so that's the thing to be really clear on, is
that the scripts that we used were, it's a closed model,
so they were completed scripts that kids had previously done
that had been marked by humans.
And that's why we are training the machine.
So any results that, um, I guess spit out as anomalies, um,
they go back in to retrain.
So that's, it's a, it's a closed model as opposed to your
copilots or your things that you use on your phones.
Right. Thank you for that clarification.
Um, Jan, did you have a sub?
Yes, I do have a stuff about the chat bot
and um, I don't want you to think that,
I don't think it's a good thing.
I, you know, like I just want sort delve down
into it a little bit more.
Sure. Because I noticed that, uh,
NZQ was not achieving its measure of the survey respondents
who agree yes and strongly agree
that information they received from NZQA met their needs.
And I wondered if there was any causal link
between the introduction of the chat bot
and that particular not reaching that measure.
I can answer actually. In fact, it's
quite opposite of that, so, right.
Uh, one of the channels we have is an email channel. Yeah.
And, uh, up until,
until the time we implemented the chat bot email channel
was, as I said earlier, was generating about a hundred
thousand emails a year.
And pe people who had an urgent issue sometimes would use
email as a channel to communicate.
And emails are not typically urgent. Yeah.
Because when you, when you have a phone call
to address, you address that.
So many of the, so what, I'll come, come to
that in a minute, but many of the reasons
that people are rating us low is
because they were expecting instant response to an email,
which takes a little while to answer.
Um, but what we have done as a fix now is that, uh,
on a web, on a website, there's a, uh, the, uh, the form,
the, and there's a web form
and that forget created since develops
a chat bot interaction.
And that gives an instant reaction
and instant response back.
And as a result of some of these inter,
and we have done some other things to improve the, the, uh,
the, um, the, the causes behind that particular measure.
So now we have, uh,
the last quarter we had about 73% satisfaction rate,
uh, compared to what we had previously.
So we are already, um, very close to meeting the measure.
I just quickly ask then Yeah.
On that, how is that information being,
are you assured how that information is correct
that the chat bot is giving to people?
Right. They could be satisfied,
it might not be the right information.
So do you have human oversight of that?
Yeah, so there are two things we do in the chat bot.
One is, uh, if you, if you go to the chat bot, there's,
and you can, you can just type, I wanna talk to a human
and you can straight away bypass
the entire chat bot process.
You can straight away go to him.
And if that's, that's not, I know that's not your question,
but that you can, you can straight away bypass that.
And then there is at the backend,
all the chatbot interactions
and the answers that the chat bot gives are monitored
by my internal team.
And they'll say, actually, this answer,
this question is as matching yes.
If not, we'll improve the model.
So there's constant supervision of what's been asked.
Um, no, that's great. Thank you. Primary,
Thank you. So my question
is about your 2023 external
review of digital assessment.
And, uh, you, uh, came up with an action plan
and some s to implement the recommendations of that review
starting from 2024 going through to mid 2026.
So very keen to get an update from you how you are going
and if there are any s not met yet met.
And what are the reasons for the delay
You, you're specifically referring
to the digital assessments assessment?
Yeah, that was done a commissioned by NZ QA
after a series of, um, digital exam failures. Yeah.
So, uh, I'll answer with one statement
and then if, if we need to go in
specifically, sure, I can get Cheryl in.
But, uh, so all the recommendations are either been
completed or almost completed.
So one of them was, for example, the, uh, we wanted
to assure that the platform is extremely secure.
And so there's a couple of security outstanding issues in
the platform which have been addressed.
So that is one example.
The other example is the, uh, scalability of the platforms.
Two years ago, as you remember, there was an issue with one
of the English exam days and some of the platform vendor.
So as Kevin said, we got 31,000, um, yeah, uh, um,
students attempting the exam on one
day by English level one.
And that was successful. There were no issues.
And the platform, so all the issues
that were raised previously have been addressed are, are,
are, are the ones that are not being addressed are, um,
are small enough that are being tracked.
So you give assurance that no login
or crashing issues will be there going forward?
Well, that's what I mean.
We have, so one
of the things we have done this year particularly, and yes,
and I'll give you that assurance, but one
of the things we have done this year is very strong vendor
management approach within, not just
for the assessment platform for what all other platforms.
So if you think about the assessment platform itself,
it is part of a supply chain of other platforms.
So the entire user experience relies on not just
that IT system, but other systems.
Mm-hmm. And so you're looking at the whole thing now,
it's just making sure everyone's
supporting us in the same manner.
Mm-hmm. So vendor management has become quite strong
and we have our expectations
of our vendors have been very strong,
and then they have come back
with strong responses back. Okay.
Great. Good program. Um, then Vanessa,
Thank you, our chair.
Um, I'd just like to turn, if we could to, um,
the financial stability mm-hmm.
Of NZQA itself.
Um, you've had a few years of, um, deficits
and then, um, good to see, um,
forecast surplus for this year.
But given that that time of, um, you know,
running down some equity, how, um, assured is the board,
especially of the, um,
financial stability going forward in relation
to potential shocks and risks,
and, um, what sort of modeling have you done to be able
to assure yourselves if any of that?
I'll start with, yeah. Thank you. Uh, so yeah.
Um, so, um, when I became chair,
I inherited a financial sustainability sustainability plan
that hadn't been quite finished.
So it was the first thing which, um, we did, um,
with the revised board.
Um, and, uh, that plan, uh,
has now largely been worked through.
Um, so most of the items on the plan, which was approved by,
you know, central agencies, the Minister Knight
has, um, we, we've implemented them.
We did a whole bunch of things. Um, uh,
you heard Prashant referred earlier to, uh, the cost
of sales and particular activities.
So we had looked at some of those, um, uh,
and also we just looked at cost cutting, um, where,
when it made sense and so on.
So, um, that, that's sort of, kind of what we did
and we were at in terms of planning, um,
in terms of substance.
Um, yeah, so we, we have, I think, um,
stabilized our finances as as, as as of today.
Um, and there there's a surplus Yes.
For, that's largely a timing issue, to be fair. Yeah.
Um, so, um, you know, that's still the end nonetheless.
Uh, but, um, uh, I think we do face challenges.
You know, we've, we've talked obviously about, um,
our core systems, um, 20 years old, um, and, and so on.
So there's a bunch of challenges. So right.
As of today we're fine.
But, um, the loss of challenges of the future, um,
and also we want to support
the government's program, et cetera.
So I'll hand it over to Han now. Yeah,
I mean, uh, just building on what Kevin said.
So we were initially budgeting a for 24, 25,
a 2.1 million deficit.
So we are now 24, 24, 25.
We ended up with 3.1 million surplus,
and we are forecasting a small surplus, uh, sorry,
budgeting a small surplus this year.
And that so's a bit of story.
If I can tell very quickly, there's a three part story here.
One part is the, uh, as a account entity, we,
we know the last 20 odd years we've been, um,
building up our reserves and then investing that in, in, in,
in, uh, innovation, uh, uh, opportunities such as NC online.
So the, until NC online happened, we,
we got budget funding eventually, a lot of the initial proof
of concepting, piloting,
et cetera, was done through our reserves.
Mm-hmm. Um, and
so we have been continuously prioritizing stakeholder
government and, and our customer demands as a, and,
and using, utilizing our reserve to serve that.
There's a period of time when that happened.
And then our, our website was 20 years old.
We had to invest in that recently,
uh, four or five years ago.
So we have been sort of depleting our reserves so
that we can respond to customer demands.
What has happened in the backend though is,
is like having a restaurant with menu items.
Mm-hmm. Uh, being served continuously for new, new requests,
but the kitchen is a bit old.
And so our IT system is like, like that.
We need to now replace that and, and invest in that.
So there's a bit of that investment happening.
But also the last year we have done quite a few line
by line, we have really looked at our productivity measures.
And so chatbot was one, one example, right?
Uh, we looked and talked about the, uh,
AI utilization across other productivity
areas within the organization.
All the example, we, we really questioned whether travel
and on, on items and, uh, could be avoided
and could be instead done online.
Now that doesn't mean we have completely stopped travel
'cause we don't want to then disconnect with our customers.
So we've gone through line by line
and really interrogated that.
But as Kevin says, I think so we have reached to a level
where I think beyond this will need, uh,
to fundamentally look at either how we, um,
look at increasing our revenue, which,
which will be a thing we're focusing on,
And I can respond to that too.
So this year, as I mentioned earlier,
we consulted on changes to our fees mm-hmm.
Because we are partially cost recovery service.
Um, so we consulted twice on, um,
reducing the credit reporting amount.
So from a dollar 37 per credit down to a dollar 10,
but increasing our hourly charge for some of the services
that we do in moderation, um, and approvals.
Um, the credit reporting fee had not been reviewed
since 2008.
Mm-hmm. The hourly professional services fee had not been
reviewed since 2019.
Um, so rather than doing that every 15
or so years, the board has asked us
to review our fees every two years to make sure
that we are both taking account of, um,
service delivery changes
and efficiencies as well as the cost
of actually providing those services.
Um, I've gotta sub a couple of subs on this.
Fir firstly, that's great to hear that you shot
that now regular cycle.
Um, I imagine though your cost
and staffing reviews are annually
so interested in why that's not aligned?
I think So. So it's great to hear
that you're gonna be more regular with your fee reviews.
Yeah. But I imagine your cost
and your staffing reviews are annual Yes.
Not every two years.
So interested why you haven't aligned your fees
review to Sure.
An annual review, even if it's,
we're not changing it this year.
So I mean, to, to some extent we need to balance the, the,
the imposition of a review cycle on our sector
with the cost pressures internally.
So when we do the, do the review, we'll forecast
as a standard inflation increase to,
to salaries for example. And then we'll,
Okay. Okay. Thank
you. That answers the question.
Secondly, I did notice that the, um,
annual report this year is much more streamlined.
Was that part of the focus on cost?
Uh, well, I answer, um, uh, well, yes. Good.
Uh, and also, um, I think I can, I'm, I'm very clear
that the board was absolutely focused.
I'd mentioned earlier that we are focused,
the organization is focused on our core business.
Um, and, um, we believe that, uh, a clear
succinct report serves those who read it first.
Thank you. Well done. Uh, Lawrence Primary,
Primary. Thank you.
Uh, speaking of core business, uh, I want
to ask you a line of questions around you
and the QA as the code administrator
for the code of practice.
Um, so in terms of the number
of international students we're seeing,
we're looking at now it's matching pre pandemic roles.
Mm-hmm. Um, do you see that being a particular challenge
as a code administrator in of compliance with the code by TS
or PTEs or even schools and tertiary institutes?
Um, so then both the number of international students
and the number of code signatories is starting to reach, um,
the pre pandemic levels?
Yeah. So we have approximately 934 code signatories
who are approved
to enroll international students at the moment.
Um, 188 of those are tertiary,
and 746 of those are in the schooling sector.
Um, so we, uh,
receive complaints from, um, learners about, um,
the compliance with the code of their providers.
But interestingly, we receive quite few
because the code itself is designed as a regulatory tool
to enable the providers themselves
to address complaints from, from learners.
Some of the kind of themes of complaints that we see are
around where a learner is dissatisfied with the process
for addressing a complaint within the institution.
Mm-hmm. Um, sometimes we have gathered information from some
of our other monitoring and risk work that we can align with
that and provide a more kind of integrated view
of the performance of that provider.
Other times it's a challenge to results.
So if it might be about the integrity of a grade
that a learner has received,
and that needs to feed back into the academic, um,
complaints process and the provider.
Mm-hmm. So, um, what we are seeing is some providers
who have maintained their code signatory status
since the pandemic, but have not necessarily started
to enroll international students again.
So we've had a focus,
and you'll see in our annual report for 24 25, on rebuilding
that capability in the sector
to enroll international students
and provide that pastoral care.
So we've delivered webinars.
We've kind of, uh, um, made sure that the people
that are working in providers
who may not necessarily be the same people that were there
before COVID, um, know their obligations under the code
and learn from other providers
who are doing good service
provision to international students.
One of the things that we asked last year,
and you said you'll go away and have a think about it
and come back to us this year, is, you know,
when there's complaints against a particular pt e,
or school, et cetera, that needs to be under the code
that needs to be publicly available.
Mm-hmm. But we weren't clear on how the number
of complaints against NZ QA
and how that is being made publicly available for people.
I wonder if you have any additional update on the
transparency of complaints NZ qa,
Um, complaints against NZQA, I think,
or reported to NZ qa?
I think both. Okay. Last time.
Let's start with the complaints with
against their provider to NZ QA
Against the provider to NZ qa. Okay. What
You mentioned before. Yes, yes. Yep.
Um, so, uh, we've had relatively few, so we get about six
to seven per quarter, um, and that it is growing.
Um, but it, the main themes
of those are things like I mentioned before Yeah.
Around those kind of quality
grades and those kinds of things.
Do you see many of the complaints go to the
separate dispute resolution service study complaints,
and they publish their complaint findings annually in an
annual report, which we can provide the committee, Mr.
Chair, if you would like a copy of that too.
Um, and that is, uh, showing
that the complaints tend to be around about the same themes
as come to us as code administrator, um, around academic,
um, results in pastoral care.
Mm-hmm. One of the things that we've noticed
probably since COVID is just complaints about accommodation.
Mm-hmm. Not necessarily accommodation costs
or when you think about tertiary, um, uh, bulk
provided accommodation, but homes stay provision.
Yeah. And how people select homes stay provision,
what the quality of that homes stay provision
is and those kinds of things.
So it's kind of different themes at different times
that we look into as code administrator.
Thank you. Two, just final two subs chair.
Um, the first, so one of the main requirements
for the code is that the, the service
or the kind of, um, that providers need
to implement processes and learnings that are appropriate
for the learning within that sphere.
And one of the challenge we've always seen between schools
and PDs and CEOs is PDs
and CEOs need to have minimum English entry
requirements, but schools do not.
Mm-hmm. So you could have someone
with no English going straight into year 13
and trying to do N qa.
How would, how would you consider that reconciling
between the need for at least some degree of English versus
the requirement for code compliance?
Yeah. For the need of the learner?
Yeah. And so the CO
you raised an absolutely really valid question around the,
um, the coders about the pastoral care.
So the total learner wellbeing
and someone that's thrown in deep end without the language
ability to be at year 13 level at school would,
would not have great wellbeing.
Absolutely. So our role is to work with both the provider,
um, so the school in that case,
or with, um, the school's association or, and
or with eero who quality review schools as well.
So we try and take a more system approach to what is
that school actually doing in terms
of the entry requirements for individual learners.
They need to set the learner up for success.
Yeah, exactly. Uh,
and final question is, so a lot of the learners, uh,
international students are coming here
and are they going to score various
because of our qualifications?
Um, what is sort of, um, the reputation, I guess,
of our qualifications internationally?
Like both in terms of people coming here wanting to study
or us going away?
Yeah, so, um, I've just returned from, um,
the Pacific Qualifications Advisory Board meeting, um,
where New Zealand's qualifications were referenced against
10 other Pacific countries.
Um, New Zealand is seen as our qualifications are seen
as leading in the Pacific region.
We also have, um, convention arrangements
with Asian countries through the Tokyo Convention,
the UNESCO Tokyo Convention.
Um, and we have regular discussions with,
as Prashant mentioned earlier, the uk, um, Ireland, QQI
as our equivalent in Ireland, um, and other countries.
So the, the review of the New Zealand Qualifications
and Credentials framework, which was the NZQF
and is now the N-Z-Q-C-F, um, has been well regarded.
And as Prashant mentioned earlier, we get a lot
of inquiries from our counterparts around the,
the world about how we do things, um, in terms
of our qualifications and credentials.
What you'll see in the annual report is about whether
or not industries and employers, um, value, qualifications
and credentials both here and overseas.
And we do a lot of work
with our counterpart agencies overseas as well, about
what is the, what is the outcome for someone having
received a qualification or a
credential or a micro-credential.
Mm-hmm. And how are they using that?
And that varies from country to country. Okay.
That's helpful. Thank you.
Yeah, it's about the complaints.
So this is about people, those
who have overseas qualifications.
Mm-hmm. And, you know, people go through the NZQA system
to get their qualifications assessed
for maybe immigration purposes
or maybe for, uh, an employment.
Um, so we want to understand for me, do you get, uh,
complaints about it not being fair
or not aligning, uh, with international standards,
and if there is any data on that
and how those complaints are handled?
Um, yes, we do. Uh,
I don't have individual data here, but, um, Mr.
Chair, we can provide some follow up feedback
information to you from the hearing.
Thank you. Um, so we, in September, 2024,
NZQA introduced a hundred percent verification
of international qualifications recognition.
Um, there was an, uh, there was a growing risk around, um,
and ironically, sometimes it's about the use of AI
to prepare and present qualifications
that are not legitimate.
Um, so in September, 2024,
we introduced a hundred percent verification.
There are services around the world that provide that.
Um, and the, uh, applicant needs to pay a fee for that.
We also, under the conventions that I mentioned earlier, um,
have country to country agreements to,
um, recognize qualifications.
And we perform a service for Immigration New Zealand, um, to
recognize, uh, qualifications
that might be on an immigration, uh, list, the green list,
for example, to get people through.
We have anywhere between, um, 2002
and a half thousand to 5,000 active cases for
qualifications recognition on our books
at any one point in time.
Um, and with each of those having to be verified,
that can take time.
So often the complaints that we receive for qualifications,
recognition about the time that it's taking,
or if we get a, a negative result from the counterpart
that we are asking about, um,
that qualification in another country, either
through convention arrangements
or directly with the provider,
then sometimes the applicant will, um,
challenge our, our decision.
Um, the other complaints we get are really about the kinds
of information and documentation that we are requiring
of applicants when they apply.
Um, and sometimes we get incomplete applications or they've
provided something that doesn't,
doesn't quite meet the threshold of evidence.
Um, so it's mainly about the service that we are providing
and the timeliness and the kinds
of information that we're asking for.
Sure. So how is the challenge then addressed? Uh,
Um, we respond within, um, time limits
to back to the person.
Um, we will, um, defend a decision
where it is based on fraudulent information
or fraudulent qualifications.
Um, and we will go back to the individual
that that has the issue.
Sometimes it can be through a third party.
So if it's an employer who is bringing in a number of, um,
workers that they want to, um, uh, have evidence
that they have a certain qualification,
then we sometimes need to go
through an employer relationship.
But we always, um, interact with a complainant about
what they're, um, concerned about. And
That's a very, very good question that you asked,
because this is highly personal for people
because it affects the immigration status,
and so you would expect
therefore a complaint volume to be higher.
But I've got a number here for the last year,
it's 10 complaints for, for that particular topic,
given the volume that that's all.
Yeah. Very good. Yeah, grant?
Yeah. Hi. Um, I had some feedback from, um,
politics sector, but when you, um, around, um,
their interactions when they look to change courses or start
and stop courses, they find that process very slow,
very cumbersome, very expensive, unnecessary.
So you got any comment on that place?
Yeah. Um, so that was one of the reasons,
not the only reason, but one of the reasons
that we consulted on our fees, um,
because the, the fee structure was not only not keeping up
with costs, but we, we weren't able to apply the services
that we needed to apply
to those decisions that we were making.
Um, so we have, uh, service level agreements that, um, we,
um, usually meet in this year,
which is not the financial year in question,
but this year in the lead up to the vocational education
and training reforms.
Mm-hmm. Um, the transition from WCS to ISBs
and the, um, uh, work-based learning divisions
of the politics, um, transitioning into ISB
and then out into PTE, if that's their choice, um,
that has slowed us down, um,
because they are, um, trying
to administratively change courses and programs mm-hmm.
Um, as well as getting endorsement from the WCS
who are outgoing
and endorsement from the ISBs that are incoming.
Um, so we have, we just have a open
and, um, frank discussion with the politics about
what they would prioritize so
that we can meet their priorities, um, making sure that
they're communicating with us
and we are communicating with them.
Yeah. Because just the, um, uh, comment, comments made
around the, the whole, uh, like the, for one example,
they want to, of course they want to get approved,
but it seems to be stuck not going anywhere,
and it just seems to take a long time.
Yeah. And they've got demand and so forth pent up, but Yeah.
And, and so, and this,
and that's not necessarily the ISB
side of it, it's just in the general?
In general in the general, uh,
polytech course, course range.
Yeah. If you have a specific
case, I'm happy to look at it.
Um, we work with all the polytechs, uh,
polytech divisions of institute, um, uh, really quickly
and smoothly when we can, if there's a request
for information out from us mm-hmm.
If we need more information, um,
then sometimes that will take longer.
Um, so if there's a specific case, happy to.
Good. Thank you. Hi, Lawrence.
Oh, thank you chair. Um, can I just check you,
you mentioned before in terms of some of the,
the changes when comes to NCA and et cetera.
Can I just check if any work has been done on already
or how has NCQA been consulted on the changes to NCA,
the division between the subject list,
the generalist versus the vocational list,
but also the integration in terms of ue?
Because one of the things we haven't heard is how
that they're gonna work when it comes to ue.
So I mean, I can, I can touch on, on a high level,
but then if you want to go into specifics, maybe one
of my colleagues can join jump in.
But, so we are working very closely with the ministry.
Ministry is the lead on n senior chain.
So, so that question possibly is more directly there,
but we are certainly from an assessment perspective,
we are giving them and our data analysis perspective,
we're certainly telling them what we
are seeing from data perspective.
So that's the extent to which we are, uh, engaging.
But is there anything specific at the people
Yeah, I guess from a NZ zq,
'cause NZ qa, when you're looking at, for example,
the current system, a lot of that also works with, you know,
how UE is considered.
Um, and a lot of that is NZ QA holding some of
that data in terms of UE in consultation
with the university, et cetera.
Has that conversation started at this
stage in terms of Okay.
That's what, that's the main thing.
Someone was just about to get up to elaborate.
Um, if you wouldn't mind elaborating on Sure.
Where things are currently at,
Um, just, just briefly, um, my name is Han.
I'm the director of data evaluation system
performance and assessment position.
So the whole, um, review
of youi will only really start once the year 12
and year 13 new qualifications are
confirmed or the shape of them.
Okay. Um, because UE is based on the, based on those, like,
it is based on, we haven't quite got there yet.
We've been mindful of that in terms of the subject lists,
in terms of the NCA, um, replacements, considerations,
we've worked very closely with the ministry and the minister
provided a lot data and, and assessment advice.
Yeah, that's helpful to know in
Universities of New Zealand.
Absolutely. Um, and if I can just, just, um,
step further forward to the mark if
you, are I gonna stay there?
Oh, you have to be closer to, oh, sorry.
Um, just, sorry, chair.
I have a separate question,
but also a sub on, um, that's okay.
This is great. I can wait in the end if anyone wanted
to chime in, feel free to do so.
Um, in terms of what Grant is asking, I think
that's a really important question.
One of the things I want to check is, so with politics,
credit accredit, uh, program accreditation has to go
through in the qa mm-hmm.
Of the universities that go through qap.
And this committee just heard a little while ago from qap.
Do you know if there's a difference in terms of time taken
to approve a new program between the two?
Um, it does depend on the program.
So, uh, U us if it's a degree program, then
Yeah. So let's say level seven.
Level seven in the above. Yeah.
Then usually they're quite, um, there's a level
of parity in the timeliness there.
Um, if it's subdegree, then they,
and some universities are offering subdegree programs,
particularly in foundation studies.
Um, then there, there is a little bit of variability there.
Um, is that,
Yeah. Um,
but as in, let's say,
because university only approve things from levels
and above, so let's use level seven
and above and levels and above.
Do, can you give a, a rough comparable between
how long it takes to go through
You process? Not today,
but I can, I can share, provide
that in a follow up. We
Just have to, Mary will recap that.
Um, and my other question, sorry, just going back to
the code of practice,
and again, this is a, this is a question we last asked last
time as well, and this is mainly I'm, um,
we kind of ask some of it.
Um, it's mainly to do with the chapter on accommodation.
Mm-hmm. So again, one of the things that we commonly hear,
and we're seeing increasing number of that,
and you mentioned home stay being one aspect of that.
And that's more to do with, that's a very separate,
so if you look at university accommodation, one of the,
the things that we hear from universities that look,
it's not under the tenancy residential tenancy agreement
because it's outside of that.
We think that code and code
of practice is much more stringent.
So go with the code of practice.
Have you seen a lot of complaints coming
through from university students in terms
of university accommodations based on the code
of practice chapter, accommodation being fair
and reasonable being my first
question? I do have a supplement.
Um, no.
Interesting. Um, my last question for now. Thank you. Yep.
My supplementary on that is, um, how, well,
because one of the sections of the code
of practice is in terms of compliance
with the dispute resolution.
Mm-hmm. So Fairway is, um, operated for that.
Does NZ QA collaborate the fairway in
any way, shape, or form?
And do you then direct some of these to do
with contractual dispute? Right. To fairway,
Uh, um, sometimes is probably the answer to that.
So it depends on the nature of the complaint.
Um, so the, um, both the dispute resolution, uh, scheme,
which is study complaints
and, uh, NZ Q a's ability
to accept complaints about code operation, we will, um,
determine whether or not it's better to be dealt with
through the dispute resolution, which can provide mediation
or other services to the learner.
Um, or it's a complaint that we can deal with
through our regulatory, um, compliance models
with the provider directly.
So I am kind of sorry for this answer.
It's a, it's a little bit, it depends ad hoc, um mm-hmm.
Not ad hoc. It depends. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cool.
Um, I wanna go back to the conversation around data
and I suppose measurement about outcome.
Yeah. Uh, and in relation to NZCA, um, NZ
Q-C-F-N-C-E-A, sorry.
Oh, NCA getting caught up.
So many acronyms this morning, NCEA, um,
and the report that, that you completed around,
that referenced, um, that the,
the data then referenced the difference between rural
and urban student achievement, um, that came out
of the Auckland University, um,
report in 2023.
Just interested how often NZQA, um,
collect the data or,
and how regularly you get a sense of that difference between
urban and rural performance.
So we report on data every year,
and we collect, um, NCA data
and report on it every year, NCA and university entrance.
We have a range of different demographic breakdowns
that we can look at, including rural
and urban, um, ethnicities,
socioeconomic equity index, gender.
Um, and we, we look at those, those breakdowns
and combinations thereof every, every year annually.
And that rural, urban, rural urban difference,
are you seeing a trend there?
Is it going positive, negative? What's the,
I couldn't comment specifically on
the rural urban difference.
Um, there, there would be a difference.
Um, there's a difference in how students engage with NCA,
um, rurally versus in urban as well.
Um, yeah.
Not specifically on repeating that
or looking at that Auckland University ese.
Okay. You're not looking at repeating that of with end
CEA, um, changing.
Okay, cool. Um, Lawrence, what's up? I just,
Just up on that. Um,
the rural urban, um,
the differences is there in your report,
and if not, why is that not put in your annual report?
Mm-hmm.
That in, well, No, that's not in one.
We do a regional breakdown,
but not a, in our annual statistics report,
What I was pointing at is this the annual statistics
report that gets published on our website,
but that particular question's not
Answered. And so I
suppose Mike's question is,
is there any reason that's not Yeah.
In there,
It's not one of the, the usual we can do that breakdown,
um, because we, but we, it's not one of the usual breakdowns
that we do, um, in terms of demographics.
Yeah. And I guess just the, the point around that is,
you know, um, there is
some disparities sometimes with rural Absolutely.
Versus urban. So I would think it's, you know, useful ation.
It's quite a significant factor at times.
Absolutely. There's also a difference in the
way students, worse
Rural schools And the kinds of, um, uh, uh,
programs they follow.
Yeah. And dare I say, sometimes the urban arts who are,
uh, marking the rural, uh, exam papers.
I, I remember seeing my geography, uh, fifth form exam back
because I got told that, um,
putting lime on a raceway in winter was
not something farmer did.
And they got, they corrected it when it went back.
We've gotta make sure we, we look after rural New Zealand.
I would've failed you too. Um, just
Trying to find actually the picture on that.
Uh, I do have then feel free if anyone have any questions.
Yeah, no, this will be our heading into our last question.
Um, I just want to just first of all pick up on
that whether the, the, the survey data make a distinction
between urban and rural in terms of EE
or in terms of completion of NCA?
I don't know. We'd need to come back
to you on the university ham study. What
Was the Question? Sorry. So
whether, because the difference
between completing NCA
and the achieving UE are two very different things.
Yeah, correct. So I want to know if, if for
the urban rural divide, it's based on UE
or it's based on completion of NCA,
Could, could we take that back?
Yeah, that'd be really helpful.
Um, I want to pick up on something else, uh,
that you mentioned before in terms of N-Z-Q-C-F
and I have a couple of questions on the NZQC.
The first one is around, off the, yeah, the first one is
around, uh, that NZQA.
So you reported that in 20 22, 20 23, 20 24, 70 6%
of those surveyed, um, said
that N-Z-Q-C-F has given them the right,
the qualification has relevant knowledge and skills,
but that dropped to 52% in this year.
And that is because the reasoning was given is
because it's done through TEC
and they use a different population data.
Could you elaborate on why we're seeing a
significant 24% drop?
Um, so I, I will give it my best shot.
So, um, what this is telling us is that the impact measure
that we used came through tc.
So yes, there was a, there,
there was a change in collection methodology,
but it's data that the WCS
and going forward the ISBs report to TC
any already anyway.
Okay. Yep. So, um, for, to reduce compliance burden, we, uh,
have tried to reuse the information
that WCS were already providing to a government agency to
report against this measure.
Yeah. The respondents
to the survey were not necessarily thinking about this
measure when they were responding to the survey.
So we are working with the WDC well for a wee well longer
and moving into ISBs Yeah.
Um, to work about how we can, um, use that information
to show whether industries
and employers think that the qualifications
and credentials on the N-Z-Q-C-F are beneficial
To them and their industries.
So basically still kind of maintaining
that we're only getting one group of people to ask
that survey question and then
that data can be shared by multiple
Agents. That's correct.
That's correct. Right. Um, oh, is that it?
Yeah. Okay. Mm-hmm. Any concluding Mark remarks?
Uh, Kevin, you want to make thanks for your interest.
Well, look, thanks for taking the time to come
and, um, for having you all this great work.
Present us the, this morning, this afternoon.
We really appreciate it. Thank you again. Thank you. Cheer.
Okay. Members, we're going
into private for a couple of minutes.
Um.